# Brain-Tumor-Detection-and-Classification
A Comparative Study of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Algorithms for Brain Tumor Detection and Classification

Brain tumor is considered as one of the aggressive diseases, among children and adults. Brain tumors account for 85 to 90 percent of all primary Central Nervous System tumors. Every year, around 11,700 people are diagnosed with a brain tumor. The 5-year survival rate for people with a cancerous brain or CNS tumor is approximately 34 percent for men and 36 percent for women. BrainTumors are classiﬁed as: Benign Tumor, Malignant Tumor, Pituitary Tumor, etc. Proper treatment planning and accurate diagnostics should be implemented to improve life expectancy of the patients. The best technique to detect brain tumors is Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Huge amounts of data images are generated through the scans. These images are examined by the radiologist. Manual examination can be error prone due to the level of complexities involved in brain tumors and their properties. Application of automated classiﬁcation techniques using Machine Learning(ML) and Artiﬁcial Intelligence(AI) has consistently shown higher accuracy than manual classiﬁcation.
Hence, we propose performing detection and classiﬁcation by using various Machine Learning and Deep Learning Algorithms using Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Convolution Neural Network (CNN) and VGG-16 to compare and achieve higher accuracy. The MRI images are classiﬁed using different ‘Machine Learning and Deep Learning Models’. These models have permutations and combinations of different ‘Hyper Parameters’. The model with the highest accuracy is selected and deployed. The aim of the project is to achieve higher accuracy and reliability for real world MRI data using ML domain knowledge. Further to compare various model accuracies, suggest the best model for classification of tumor and detect the category of brain tumor in the MRI scans.
